is that in that same time
late 60s early 70s
that the cops take over the sort of
imaginary of of american culture you
have the very beginnings of a shift
to
the securitization of the welfare state
of and and of capitalism uh increasingly
capital is no longer getting its profits
from making and selling things
less and less of the profits being
traded in wall street for example come
from commerce or industry
and more and more from finance
manipulating people's debts betting on
how much rent they're going to pay of
expense of one kinds or another of the
fire sector finance insurance and real
estate the interesting thing is the more
the economy financializes the more you
get this kind of securitization the more
police or police substitutes guys with
guns
um with certain police powers or
police-like powers start appearing all
over the place i always think of the
bank
um when i was growing up they didn't
have local bank branches they had these
little temples you know
buildings that were banks and they
always looked like classical temples uh
churches of money in a certain sense but
you know
gradually like in the 80s and 90s or the
atm machine you had these little
branches of banks opening their stores
that didn't actually sell anything they
looked like this very cheap virtual
reality brought into life you know um
they and all they really had in them was
money
and guns guys big burly guys with guns
where the security um and then
got people with computer screens um
so these empty stores
with money and guns in them and to me
this is a symbol because as
financialization of the economy
increased you also have people with guns
showing up pretty much everywhere where
would you never have dreamed of there
being before um
i always give the example fire islands
little beach resort which i used to
spend summers on as a child and it was
so rare to see a policeman there that
you know every now and then when we're
driving this little buggy down up and
down the beach and all the kids are like
hey there's a cop there's like i have a
gun i saw it i saw that
it was it was an extraordinary thing to
see a police
or a police officer or anyone armed with
a weapon
now you go to that place there's like
you know big private security guys on
the ferry making sure that um nobody
does anything untoward um there's a cop
station as you come off the dock there's
police all over the place
i mean it's not like people's behavior
has fundamentally changed
but the way we feel we have to deal with
it is fundamentally changed so we have
police and or police like people in
playgrounds and schools and hospitals
none of that used to exist so so so
there's this
kind of
invasion of the threat of violence into
every aspect of our society at the same
time as there is this process of the
economy being reorganized around
extraction it's basically this feudal
principle rather than capitalist
principle the capitals are making their
profits if you can even call them
capitalists off of you know directly
what they used to call gero-political
means of extraction
they're if they're if they're charging
you for something if they're you know
extracting debt payments or rent
payments from you that's ultimately the
threat of force the criminal justice
system ultimately lies behind that um
there is ultimately a cop a stick a gun
being waved at you when they take your
money and um i think the ultimate symbol
about i looked into what was happening
in ferguson
the original black lives matter protests
um and and
one of the extraordinary things about
ferguson was it turned out that
like two-thirds of the population of
ferguson were overwhelmingly
african-american two-thirds of the
population had outstanding warrants it's
extraordinary and almost none of them
were for crimes again like less than
seven percent you know uh it was almost
always for
you know having something you know not
having mowed your lawn or
or having a broken tail light or some
incredible minor violation of
administrative um ordinance of some kind
or another and
they had the system set up to find them
and if they don't pay and they made it
as difficult as possible to pay the fine
so they could add additional fines for
non-payment and it was all revenue
uh system basically the cops were
directly taking the money so i said oh
why and what was what was they using it
for because it turned a large part of
ferguson's budget was based on
on police extracting penalty fees
it turns out that the amount of money
that the police extracted from citizens
and they took them from african-american
citizens overwhelmingly and one reason
when they asked the cops why do you keep
going after these people you know what
their excuse was they said well we go
after the people we think are least
likely to have a lawyer
well black people are probably not going
to have a lawyer their fair game you
know and so they hold them and they
basically extract money they say well
we'll let you go for a thousand bucks
you know they kidnapped people um
i don't have a thousand bucks and like
gala hold them for a week in these
pretty dangerous cells where they could
easily get sick and tired um you know
vulnerable people and often uh and
they'd say okay fine 500.
you know uh sometimes they finally let
them go if they really didn't have the
money but they were just simply
extracting all the money they could out
of these poor families and the amount of
money they extracted from that
population
turns out to be exactly the same as
their municipal debt